README.md, before:

# AI Image Gen Pro 🎨

A **professional-grade AI image generation platform** powered by **Gemini 2.5 Flash Image (Nano Banana)** with an enhanced **neobrutalism UI design** and advanced creative tools.

## ✨ Professional Features

### Core Generation
- 🖼️ **High-Quality Image Generation** - Powered by Google's latest Gemini 2.5 Flash Image model
- 📸 **Image-to-Image Generation** - Upload reference images to guide generation and editing
- 🔢 **Batch Generation** - Generate up to 4 images simultaneously
- 💬 **Conversational AI** - Describe scenes naturally, not just keywords
- 🔤 **High-Fidelity Text Rendering** - Accurately generate images with legible text

### Advanced Controls
- 📏 **Aspect Ratio Selector** - 6 preset ratios (1:1, 16:9, 9:16, 4:3, 3:4, 21:9)
- 🎭 **Style Presets** - Realistic, Artistic, Anime, Digital Art, 3D Render, Minimalist
- ⛔ **Negative Prompts** - Specify what to avoid in generations
- 💡 **Prompt Templates** - Pre-built templates for common use cases

### Professional Tools
- 💾 **Persistent History** - Auto-save all generated images to localStorage
- 🔍 **Smart Search** - Filter images by prompt text
- 📋 **Advanced Sorting** - Sort by newest, oldest, or prompt
- 🖼️ **Image Lightbox** - Full-screen viewing with detailed metadata
- 📊 **Stats Dashboard** - Track usage statistics and preferences
- 🌙 **Dark Mode** - Eye-friendly dark theme with preserved neobrutalism styling
- 📥 **Bulk Download** - Download multiple images at once
- 🗑️ **Individual Delete** - Remove unwanted images from history

### UI/UX Enhancements
- ✨ **Smooth Animations** - Fade, scale, and slide transitions
- 🎨 **Neobrutalism Design** - Bold colors, thick borders, and retro aesthetic
- 📱 **Fully Responsive** - Works perfectly on desktop, tablet, and mobile
- ⚡ **Real-time Progress** - Live generation progress tracking

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ installed
- A Google Gemini API key ([Get one here](https://ai.google.dev/))

### Installation

1. **Install dependencies:**
```bash
npm install
```

2. **Set up environment variables:**
Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory:
```bash
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key_here
```

3. **Run the development server:**
```bash
npm run dev
```

4. **Open your browser:**
Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## 🎯 Usage

### Quick Start

1. **Enter a prompt** - Describe your desired image in detail (up to 480 characters)
2. **Choose style preset** - Select from 6 professional style options
3. **Set aspect ratio** - Pick the perfect dimensions for your use case
4. **Add negative prompt** (optional) - Specify what to avoid
5. **Select batch size** - Generate 1-4 images simultaneously
6. **Click "Generate Images"** - Watch the magic happen!

### Using Prompt Templates

- Click any template button to auto-fill your prompt
- Customize the template text as needed
- Templates include landscapes, cityscapes, interiors, fantasy, abstract art, and product photography

### Image-to-Image Generation

1. Click "Upload Image" to add a reference image
2. Enter a prompt describing desired modifications
3. Select style preset and aspect ratio
4. Generate variations based on your reference

### Managing Your Gallery

- **Search**: Use the search bar to filter images by prompt
- **Sort**: Organize by newest, oldest, or alphabetically
- **View Details**: Click any image for full-screen lightbox with metadata
- **Download**: Single download or bulk download all filtered images
- **Delete**: Remove unwanted images individually
- **Stats**: Track your generation statistics and preferences

### Dark Mode

Toggle dark mode using the button in the header for comfortable viewing in low-light environments.

## 💡 Prompting Tips

- **Describe the scene, don't just list keywords** - Narrative descriptions work best
- Use natural language and full sentences
- Be specific about details, style, lighting, and composition
- For editing: Clearly describe what to change while keeping context
- All generated images include a SynthID watermark

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Framework:** Next.js 15
- **Language:** TypeScript
- **Styling:** Tailwind CSS + Custom Neobrutalism CSS
- **AI:** Gemini 2.5 Flash Image (Nano Banana) API
- **Deployment:** Vercel-ready

## 📁 Project Structure

```
ai-image-gen/
├── app/
│   ├── api/
│   │   ├── generate/          # Text-to-image API route
│   │   └── generate-with-image/  # Image-to-image API route
│   ├── globals.css            # Neobrutalism styling
│   ├── layout.tsx             # Root layout
│   └── page.tsx               # Main page
├── public/
├── .env.local.example         # Environment template
├── package.json
└── README.md
```

## 🎨 Neobrutalism Design

The UI features:
- **Thick black borders** (4px)
- **Bold drop shadows** (offset shadows)
- **Vibrant colors** (yellow, pink, blue, green, purple, orange)
- **Uppercase typography**
- **Interactive button states**
- **Retro aesthetic**

## 🔒 API Key Security

- Never commit your `.env.local` file
- Keep your Gemini API key private
- Use environment variables for all sensitive data

## 📝 License

MIT License - feel free to use this project for personal or commercial purposes.

## 🙏 Credits

- **Google Gemini** for the Imagen API
- **Neobrutalism** design trend for the aesthetic inspiration

---

Built with ❤️ using Next.js and Google Gemini

Commit message:

Add Virtual Try-On feature with UI, API, and docs
Introduces the AI-powered Virtual Try-On feature, allowing users to upload a person and clothing image to generate realistic try-on results. Adds a new API route (`/api/virtual-tryon`), a React component for the modal workflow, updates the main page with quick access, and provides comprehensive documentation and announcement files. Also updates README and CHANGELOG to reflect the new feature.

README.md, after:

# AI Image Gen Pro 🎨

A **professional-grade AI image generation platform** powered by **Gemini 2.5 Flash Image (Nano Banana)** with an enhanced **neobrutalism UI design** and advanced creative tools.

## ✨ Professional Features

### Core Generation
- 🖼️ **High-Quality Image Generation** - Powered by Google's latest Gemini 2.5 Flash Image model
- 👔 **Virtual Try-On (NEW!)** - Upload person + clothing images for realistic try-on visualization
- 📸 **Image-to-Image Generation** - Upload reference images to guide generation and editing
- 🔢 **Batch Generation** - Generate up to 4 images simultaneously
- 💬 **Conversational AI** - Describe scenes naturally, not just keywords
- 🔤 **High-Fidelity Text Rendering** - Accurately generate images with legible text

### Advanced Controls
- 📏 **Aspect Ratio Selector** - 6 preset ratios (1:1, 16:9, 9:16, 4:3, 3:4, 21:9)
- 🎭 **Style Presets** - Realistic, Artistic, Anime, Digital Art, 3D Render, Minimalist
- ⛔ **Negative Prompts** - Specify what to avoid in generations
- 💡 **Prompt Templates** - Pre-built templates for common use cases

### Professional Tools
- 💾 **Persistent History** - Auto-save all generated images to localStorage
- 🔍 **Smart Search** - Filter images by prompt text
- 📋 **Advanced Sorting** - Sort by newest, oldest, or prompt
- 🖼️ **Image Lightbox** - Full-screen viewing with detailed metadata
- 📊 **Stats Dashboard** - Track usage statistics and preferences
- 🌙 **Dark Mode** - Eye-friendly dark theme with preserved neobrutalism styling
- 📥 **Bulk Download** - Download multiple images at once
- 🗑️ **Individual Delete** - Remove unwanted images from history

### UI/UX Enhancements
- ✨ **Smooth Animations** - Fade, scale, and slide transitions
- 🎨 **Neobrutalism Design** - Bold colors, thick borders, and retro aesthetic
- 📱 **Fully Responsive** - Works perfectly on desktop, tablet, and mobile
- ⚡ **Real-time Progress** - Live generation progress tracking

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ installed
- A Google Gemini API key ([Get one here](https://ai.google.dev/))

### Installation

1. **Install dependencies:**
```bash
npm install
```

2. **Set up environment variables:**
Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory:
```bash
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key_here
```

3. **Run the development server:**
```bash
npm run dev
```

4. **Open your browser:**
Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## 🎯 Usage

### Quick Start

1. **Enter a prompt** - Describe your desired image in detail (up to 480 characters)
2. **Choose style preset** - Select from 6 professional style options
3. **Set aspect ratio** - Pick the perfect dimensions for your use case
4. **Add negative prompt** (optional) - Specify what to avoid
5. **Select batch size** - Generate 1-4 images simultaneously
6. **Click "Generate Images"** - Watch the magic happen!

### Using Prompt Templates

- Click any template button to auto-fill your prompt
- Customize the template text as needed
- Templates include landscapes, cityscapes, interiors, fantasy, abstract art, and product photography

### Image-to-Image Generation

1. Click "Upload Image" to add a reference image
2. Enter a prompt describing desired modifications
3. Select style preset and aspect ratio
4. Generate variations based on your reference

### Virtual Try-On (NEW!)

1. Click "👔 Virtual Try-On" button
2. Upload a photo of a person
3. Upload a photo of clothing item
4. Add optional customization (pose, lighting, etc.)
5. Generate realistic try-on visualization
6. Perfect for online shopping, fashion design, and style planning

**See [VIRTUAL-TRYON.md](VIRTUAL-TRYON.md) for detailed guide**

### Managing Your Gallery

- **Search**: Use the search bar to filter images by prompt
- **Sort**: Organize by newest, oldest, or alphabetically
- **View Details**: Click any image for full-screen lightbox with metadata
- **Download**: Single download or bulk download all filtered images
- **Delete**: Remove unwanted images individually
- **Stats**: Track your generation statistics and preferences

### Dark Mode

Toggle dark mode using the button in the header for comfortable viewing in low-light environments.

## 💡 Prompting Tips

- **Describe the scene, don't just list keywords** - Narrative descriptions work best
- Use natural language and full sentences
- Be specific about details, style, lighting, and composition
- For editing: Clearly describe what to change while keeping context
- All generated images include a SynthID watermark

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Framework:** Next.js 15
- **Language:** TypeScript
- **Styling:** Tailwind CSS + Custom Neobrutalism CSS
- **AI:** Gemini 2.5 Flash Image (Nano Banana) API
- **Deployment:** Vercel-ready

## 📁 Project Structure

```
ai-image-gen/
├── app/
│   ├── api/
│   │   ├── generate/          # Text-to-image API route
│   │   └── generate-with-image/  # Image-to-image API route
│   ├── globals.css            # Neobrutalism styling
│   ├── layout.tsx             # Root layout
│   └── page.tsx               # Main page
├── public/
├── .env.local.example         # Environment template
├── package.json
└── README.md
```

## 🎨 Neobrutalism Design

The UI features:
- **Thick black borders** (4px)
- **Bold drop shadows** (offset shadows)
- **Vibrant colors** (yellow, pink, blue, green, purple, orange)
- **Uppercase typography**
- **Interactive button states**
- **Retro aesthetic**

## 🔒 API Key Security

- Never commit your `.env.local` file
- Keep your Gemini API key private
- Use environment variables for all sensitive data

## 📝 License

MIT License - feel free to use this project for personal or commercial purposes.

## 🙏 Credits

- **Google Gemini** for the Imagen API
- **Neobrutalism** design trend for the aesthetic inspiration

---

Built with ❤️ using Next.js and Google Gemini
